TESTING.asciidoc, before:

[[Testing Framework Cheatsheet]]
= Testing

[partintro]

Elasticsearch uses jUnit for testing, it also uses randomness in the
tests, that can be set using a seed, the following is a cheatsheet of
options for running the tests for ES.

== Creating packages

To create a distribution without running the tests, simply run the
following:

-----------------------------
mvn clean package -DskipTests
-----------------------------

== Other test options

To disable and enable network transport, set the `Des.node.mode`.

Use network transport (default):

------------------------------------
-Des.node.mode=network
------------------------------------

Use local transport:

-------------------------------------
-Des.node.mode=local
-------------------------------------

Alternatively, you can set the `ES_TEST_LOCAL` environment variable:

-------------------------------------
export ES_TEST_LOCAL=true && mvn test
-------------------------------------

=== Test case filtering.

- `tests.class` is a class-filtering shell-like glob pattern,
- `tests.method` is a method-filtering glob pattern.

Run a single test case (variants)

----------------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.class=org.elasticsearch.package.ClassName
mvn test "-Dtests.class=*.ClassName"
----------------------------------------------------------

Run all tests in a package and sub-packages

----------------------------------------------------
mvn test "-Dtests.class=org.elasticsearch.package.*"
----------------------------------------------------

Run any test methods that contain 'esi' (like: ...r*esi*ze...).

-------------------------------
mvn test "-Dtests.method=*esi*"
-------------------------------

=== Seed and repetitions.

Run with a given seed (seed is a hex-encoded long).

------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.seed=DEADBEEF
------------------------------

=== Repeats _all_ tests of ClassName N times.

Every test repetition will have a different method seed 
(derived from a single random master seed).

--------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.iters=N -Dtests.class=*.ClassName
--------------------------------------------------

=== Repeats _all_ tests of ClassName N times.

Every test repetition will have exactly the same master (0xdead) and
method-level (0xbeef) seed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.iters=N -Dtests.class=*.ClassName -Dtests.seed=DEAD:BEEF
------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== Repeats a given test N times

(note the filters - individual test repetitions are given suffixes,
ie: testFoo[0], testFoo[1], etc... so using testmethod or tests.method
ending in a glob is necessary to ensure iterations are run).

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.iters=N -Dtests.class=*.ClassName -Dtests.method=mytest*
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Repeats N times but skips any tests after the first failure or M initial failures.

-------------------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.iters=N -Dtests.failfast=true -Dtestcase=...
mvn test -Dtests.iters=N -Dtests.maxfailures=M -Dtestcase=...
-------------------------------------------------------------

=== Test groups.

Test groups can be enabled or disabled (true/false).

Default value provided below in [brackets].

------------------------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.nightly=[false]   - nightly test group (@Nightly)
mvn test -Dtests.weekly=[false]    - weekly tests (@Weekly)
mvn test -Dtests.awaitsfix=[false] - known issue (@AwaitsFix)
mvn test -Dtests.slow=[true]       - slow tests (@Slow)
------------------------------------------------------------------

=== Load balancing and caches.

By default, the tests run sequentially on a single forked JVM. 

To run with more forked JVMs than the default use:

----------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.jvms=8 test
----------------------------

Don't count hypercores for CPU-intense tests and leave some slack
for JVM-internal threads (like the garbage collector). Make sure there is 
enough RAM to handle child JVMs.


=== Miscellaneous.

Run all tests without stopping on errors (inspect log files).

-----------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.haltonfailure=false test
-----------------------------------------

Run more verbose output (slave JVM parameters, etc.).

----------------------
mvn test -verbose test
----------------------

Change the default suite timeout to 5 seconds for all
tests (note the exclamation mark).

---------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.timeoutSuite=5000! ...
---------------------------------------

Change the logging level of ES (not mvn)

--------------------------------
mvn test -Des.logger.level=DEBUG
--------------------------------

Print all the logging output from the test runs to the commandline
even if tests are passing.

------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.output=always
------------------------------

== Testing the REST layer

The available integration tests make use of the java API to communicate with
the elasticsearch nodes, using the internal binary transport (port 9300 by
default).
The REST layer is tested through specific tests that are shared between all
the elasticsearch official clients and consist of YAML files that describe the
operations to be executed and the obtained results that need to be tested.

The REST tests are run automatically when executing the maven test command. To run only the
REST tests use the following command:

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.class=org.elasticsearch.test.rest.ElasticsearchRestTests
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

`ElasticsearchRestTests` is the executable test class that runs all the
yaml suites available within the `rest-api-spec` folder.

The following are the options supported by the REST tests runner:

* `tests.rest[true|false|host:port]`: determines whether the REST tests need
to be run and if so whether to rely on an external cluster (providing host
and port) or fire a test cluster (default). It's possible to provide a
comma separated list of addresses to send requests in a round-robin fashion.
* `tests.rest.suite`: comma separated paths of the test suites to be run
(by default loaded from /rest-api-spec/test). It is possible to run only a subset
of the tests providing a sub-folder or even a single yaml file (the default
/rest-api-spec/test prefix is optional when files are loaded from classpath)
e.g. -Dtests.rest.suite=index,get,create/10_with_id
* `tests.rest.section`: regex that allows to filter the test sections that
are going to be run. If provided, only the section names that match (case
insensitive) against it will be executed
* `tests.rest.spec`: REST spec path (default /rest-api-spec/api)
* `tests.iters`: runs multiple iterations
* `tests.seed`: seed to base the random behaviours on
* `tests.appendseed[true|false]`: enables adding the seed to each test
section's description (default false)

Commit message:

[TEST] Replaced RestTestSuiteRunner with parametrized test that uses RandomizedRunner directly
ElasticsearchRestTests extends now ElasticsearchIntegrationTest and makes use of our ordinary test infrastructure, in particular all randomized aspects now come for free instead of having to maintain a separate (custom) tests runner

We previously parsed only the tests that needed to be run given the version of the cluster the tests are running against. This doesn't happen anymore as it didn't buy much and it would be harder to support as the tests get now parsed before the test cluster gets started. Thus all the tests are now parsed regardless of their skip sections, afterwards the ones that don't need to be run will be skipped through assume directives.

Fixed REST tests that rely on a specific number of shards as this change introduces also random number of shards and replicas (through randomIndexTemplate)

Closes #5654

TESTING.asciidoc, after:

[[Testing Framework Cheatsheet]]
= Testing

[partintro]

Elasticsearch uses jUnit for testing, it also uses randomness in the
tests, that can be set using a seed, the following is a cheatsheet of
options for running the tests for ES.

== Creating packages

To create a distribution without running the tests, simply run the
following:

-----------------------------
mvn clean package -DskipTests
-----------------------------

== Other test options

To disable and enable network transport, set the `Des.node.mode`.

Use network transport (default):

------------------------------------
-Des.node.mode=network
------------------------------------

Use local transport:

-------------------------------------
-Des.node.mode=local
-------------------------------------

Alternatively, you can set the `ES_TEST_LOCAL` environment variable:

-------------------------------------
export ES_TEST_LOCAL=true && mvn test
-------------------------------------

=== Test case filtering.

- `tests.class` is a class-filtering shell-like glob pattern,
- `tests.method` is a method-filtering glob pattern.

Run a single test case (variants)

----------------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.class=org.elasticsearch.package.ClassName
mvn test "-Dtests.class=*.ClassName"
----------------------------------------------------------

Run all tests in a package and sub-packages

----------------------------------------------------
mvn test "-Dtests.class=org.elasticsearch.package.*"
----------------------------------------------------

Run any test methods that contain 'esi' (like: ...r*esi*ze...).

-------------------------------
mvn test "-Dtests.method=*esi*"
-------------------------------

=== Seed and repetitions.

Run with a given seed (seed is a hex-encoded long).

------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.seed=DEADBEEF
------------------------------

=== Repeats _all_ tests of ClassName N times.

Every test repetition will have a different method seed 
(derived from a single random master seed).

--------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.iters=N -Dtests.class=*.ClassName
--------------------------------------------------

=== Repeats _all_ tests of ClassName N times.

Every test repetition will have exactly the same master (0xdead) and
method-level (0xbeef) seed.

------------------------------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.iters=N -Dtests.class=*.ClassName -Dtests.seed=DEAD:BEEF
------------------------------------------------------------------------

=== Repeats a given test N times

(note the filters - individual test repetitions are given suffixes,
ie: testFoo[0], testFoo[1], etc... so using testmethod or tests.method
ending in a glob is necessary to ensure iterations are run).

-------------------------------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.iters=N -Dtests.class=*.ClassName -Dtests.method=mytest*
-------------------------------------------------------------------------

Repeats N times but skips any tests after the first failure or M initial failures.

-------------------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.iters=N -Dtests.failfast=true -Dtestcase=...
mvn test -Dtests.iters=N -Dtests.maxfailures=M -Dtestcase=...
-------------------------------------------------------------

=== Test groups.

Test groups can be enabled or disabled (true/false).

Default value provided below in [brackets].

------------------------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.nightly=[false]   - nightly test group (@Nightly)
mvn test -Dtests.weekly=[false]    - weekly tests (@Weekly)
mvn test -Dtests.awaitsfix=[false] - known issue (@AwaitsFix)
mvn test -Dtests.slow=[true]       - slow tests (@Slow)
------------------------------------------------------------------

=== Load balancing and caches.

By default, the tests run sequentially on a single forked JVM. 

To run with more forked JVMs than the default use:

----------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.jvms=8 test
----------------------------

Don't count hypercores for CPU-intense tests and leave some slack
for JVM-internal threads (like the garbage collector). Make sure there is 
enough RAM to handle child JVMs.


=== Miscellaneous.

Run all tests without stopping on errors (inspect log files).

-----------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.haltonfailure=false test
-----------------------------------------

Run more verbose output (slave JVM parameters, etc.).

----------------------
mvn test -verbose test
----------------------

Change the default suite timeout to 5 seconds for all
tests (note the exclamation mark).

---------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.timeoutSuite=5000! ...
---------------------------------------

Change the logging level of ES (not mvn)

--------------------------------
mvn test -Des.logger.level=DEBUG
--------------------------------

Print all the logging output from the test runs to the commandline
even if tests are passing.

------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.output=always
------------------------------

== Testing the REST layer

The available integration tests make use of the java API to communicate with
the elasticsearch nodes, using the internal binary transport (port 9300 by
default).
The REST layer is tested through specific tests that are shared between all
the elasticsearch official clients and consist of YAML files that describe the
operations to be executed and the obtained results that need to be tested.

The REST tests are run automatically when executing the maven test command. To run only the
REST tests use the following command:

---------------------------------------------------------------------------
mvn test -Dtests.class=org.elasticsearch.test.rest.ElasticsearchRestTests
---------------------------------------------------------------------------

`ElasticsearchRestTests` is the executable test class that runs all the
yaml suites available within the `rest-api-spec` folder.

The REST tests support all the options provided by the randomized runner, plus the following:

* `tests.rest[true|false]`: determines whether the REST tests need to be run (default) or not.
* `tests.rest.suite`: comma separated paths of the test suites to be run
(by default loaded from /rest-api-spec/test). It is possible to run only a subset
of the tests providing a sub-folder or even a single yaml file (the default
/rest-api-spec/test prefix is optional when files are loaded from classpath)
e.g. -Dtests.rest.suite=index,get,create/10_with_id
* `tests.rest.spec`: REST spec path (default /rest-api-spec/api)

Note that the REST tests, like all the integration tests, can be run against an external
cluster by specifying the `tests.cluster` property, which if present needs to contain a
comma separated list of nodes to connect to (e.g. localhost:9300). A transport client will
be created based on that and used for all the before|after test operations, and to extract
the http addresses of the nodes so that REST requests can be sent to them.
